
=== 第1页 ===
Joe Ross

TRADING
BY THE
MINUTE

ROSS TRADING EUROPE


=== 第2页 ===
Trading by the Minute
ISBN 3-932741-13-7

Copyright 2001 by Ross Trading GmbH
ALL RIGHTS RESERVED

Other books by Joe Ross:

Trading is a business ¢ Trading by the Book
Trading the Ross Hook Trading Optures and Futions
Trading Spread and Seasonals

Trading by the Minute
Copyright 1999 by Joe Ross

Revised 1999

Distributed by Ross Trading Europe,
Herderstr. 6a, D-65239 Hochheim/M., Germany
Fax: +49-6146-7204, Email: service@ross-trading.com
Visit our Web site: http://www _ross-trading.com


=== 第3页 ===
DISCLAIMER

NO CLAIM IS MADE BY JOE ROSS OR BY ROSS TRADING EUROPE THAT THE
TRADING METHODS SHOWN HERE WILL RESULT IN PROFITS AND WILL NOT
RESULT IN LOSSES. FUTURES TRADING MAY NOT BE SUITABLE FOR ALL
RECIPIENTS OF THIS PUBLICATION. ALL COMMENTS, TECHNIQUES, METHODS,
AND CONCEPTS SHOWN WITHIN THIS MANUAL ARE NOT AND SHOULD NOT BE
CONSTRUED AS AN OFFER TO BUY OR SELL ANY OF THE FUTURES NAMED
HEREIN. THE THOUGHTS EXPRESSED ARE NOT GUARANTEED TO PRODUCE
PROFITS. ALL OPINIONS ARE SUBJECT TO CHANGE WITHOUT NOTICE. EACH
TRADER IS RESPONSIBLE FOR HIS/HER OWN ACTIONS, IF ANY. PURCHASE OF
THIS MANUAL CONSTITUTES YOUR AGREEMENT TO THIS DISCLAIMER AND
EXEMPTS THE CREATORS AND DISTRIBUTORS FROM ANY LIABILITY OR
LITIGATION.

No part of this publication may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system, or
transmitted in any form or by any means, electronic, mechanical, photocopying,
recording or otherwise, without the prior written permission of the publisher and the
copyright holder except in the case of briefquotations embodied in critical articles and
reviews.


=== 第4页 ===
To my son, Scott B. Ross, who contributed more to this book than he may ever know.


=== 第5页 ===
Table of Contents

FOreWOrd ooo coe cesceneecessesscsscsscsevssvssvussanssaveneessusesastassessessresissessessssvesteseeseeaveteiseeteeseeees 3

Tmtroduction o.oo... cecec cee escesssssesssseseecesssvesssvsssevesussestssurassveavavesvstssseaiesieeeitetesteteveeeesescee. 5
Please Read This o.oo... scccccccssccseessesssvsssssesssecsscsseesesststesasenatesessessusstesvesecsteseeeseeeeeeeee 5

Chapter yee ceeeeseeeeseeees sees seseevereeseneees 9
The Truth Is the Truth

Chapter 2 eee cee eccesesssensetesescsevstsevsesavesareseasesesssaeeseseesssees 17
CHART READING ooo. ceccccceesscsseseeseesscsecsscsvssscrvsssasssetsntansavaseaestesesseateevesececeveseceeeeee.

Chapter 3 oo. 27

Trade Selection... ice ccc cssssevesesssevesevsveseateseesveseeses . ve
Chapter 4c cceeccceeescenseseuenssevesveteceavereateavareseseeveeesvesee 33
Major Entry Signals... cececeececcesesessesessessesvossavavesvateareseassuessetesseseevsusesivivesviveseecees
Chapter 5 .
Intermediate Entry Signals... 0... o.cecceec ccc cccccccecescssesseessessvssuessvestesueeasensesstetsetiteseescesveeseeeee
Chapter 6 000s 56
Minor Entry Signal .

Chapter Fae ceeecceeeeeeeetsscesesssseescecesvensssarsentassneavsusstersavareavarsaveveeveveeveveeveveese. cevceeeevetteees 59
The Trader's Trick 200... ooo ccccccccccsesscsseevesessssvsvesvereeversuversuvereaverseversevevseveveitertivitesveeessesees
Chapter Boi eecceeeccses ccc ces cssnssveuevense veseaveesvanse eussavuseseessstsscesesesaesesiteiteseevestesvesteeee 69
SHOPS ooo ces cee ecseeeseeseeseneescessecereesscttesiessmtattunssissesseeseuesensetssea enteatensssesesese siesta
Chapter 9... 77
Ordering eee cece ceees ese ece cesses con seseevesevavesaveueeseanateansvtessiessciceseesestesioatesteesiverteeveeeees
Chapter 10 ooo... cecccccccccsscsseessssesseesssesssessesssecstseseretsvesstvssvessuessiesssesstasetsiessstssessveseveeesee, 80
Housekeeping... cece cceececscueesessesseeseveversesnsevssseveeseasessesesetieitaretivssteieassessiveteeeceeee
Chapter Dice ces ceeeeseesesseesnsaneessssssscsscsecssesssssustvssuananssssstssseteaseavaseaseateetaveseseeeseeseees 82

Brokers and Commissions tease
Chapter 12 o.oo
A Trading Plan.
Chapter 13 ooo ccecceccseesesesssesteseseeseees
Filtering the Trade ooo... 00. ccc ccceescsseseveseeseecesssscesssssessverperetaiseseteerseecieceseettteiteeveeveeeeee.
Chapter 14 000
Risk and Money Management ..0............0...cccccccscesscscsssevssessssssseessessecsstessessstsssiessvesesvesesessee
Chapter 15 ooo ceceecccececsnsecsesncsceesssesseseeereresesteeieeviteeeeeees 107
Congestions Are Important ....0...0....0...c.ccccsscesssesssessesessssessessreessiee ersisesssesstesssesstesesesses cesses
Chapter 16 eee cc ce esssnessevevsrssessnsseestesentasitereatesvestesteisseseseeeee 112
Mind-Set ...
Chapter 17.00.00...
Search Out the Best 2.00.00... ccc ccc cssesseesecsvevevesevssesteesevaresevesscsessessecitesvestesseateereessees
Chapter 18 oe eee cecsessssesssessuessevescesvevssssvsssatearssesssamssssessvavesesettereseeserevevese besceeeees 127
The Third Contract Set ..
Chapter 19 20.
Strategy and Tactics....
Chapter 20 ooo ccc
Trading the Minor Entry Signal cece c esses eee eceeeasseaeeceseaeeneeerseaeeaeeeseteteeescseccee
Chapter 20 ice eee ecees cece cscesrssevseescanseveseveneeesseneesesesvesecesesteiteseeievterpiseiveveeesteese, 144
Trading Logic... ic cceesceesesseesesesesessesscsecsceusesrsuarsstananerstatsitsavaseavasearenstsesecseeveeseeseeee
Chapter 22 ee cece cceeeceseeesecsecsvetersnrsenssvesseseeeareesnssevssvssstestsstesieeresiesipattsevsevessesaee 147
Concrete Examples.


=== 第6页 ===
2 TRADING BY THE MINUTE.

Chapter 23 oo... ceccceeccccccscceecceeececeecceeescenenseeeetcneneeeaeeneaeneeaeneanecanesreesecosensssssssisisesennenenenentaty 154
Trend finding — Li... ce eeecceeeceeeecereter eee eereeereseessesceeeseteetetsestenessaseeeseseesensersaseserecsasenicrees:
Chapter 24 ooo ccc cece cess ceeeneneesiceenectnerenenseenenenensitesecntisesererscerectesesesesesat 158
Trend finding -2..
Chapter 25 occ cee ces cececeseeeneseeseeeeenenenseeescneessssesscescsenseseseenseeessesesieas
Interesting bars and formations ........0...... cette eeeeee etree
Chapter 26 0.0.0.0 cece ce cee reeeereeeereneeee
Turning Day Trades into Position Trades .........ccccscsseeeeeeeesee
Chapter 27 oo... cccecceeccceeeccseeeneescereescaeeeeenstenssnenesnesseensessesersiee .
Sixty Minute Daytrading.......0..0cccecccece ccc ccncec eee eees nese ceneeeeneesr enna seeeaeaneneseenensasscesseseaeecscess
Chapter 28 ooo... cic cececeeecceeeneeseenssssnersieeeceeesetenseees 244
SRP Trading cee cs tsetse cceeseeenesensesnesesenesessseseseesscssssesensresaseseseeesesasaeesgetes
Chapter 29 ooo cee ceeeeeeeecseeeeeeeeeenees sens cereiseesescieesenenesurtiesasseseentesesearanness veveeeeeensees 329
Something Old — Something New............cccccceccccicee teens eter reenes cece nenesieaasenaneeseneeasenten
Chapter 30 ooo... cece ceeeeseeeeceeeeteteeteneneeneenes vo ceeeceeeecseeeeeneetenteseeeseetensetnnsennerensees 353
Full Circle



=== 第7页 ===
Foreword

There are few authors in technical analyses who write with Joe Ross’ clarity. The interesting
thing is that when you read his manuals you feel the sense of deja vu. Those market features
that you have seen in a vague pattern are now brought into focus as if a fog has been lifted.
You can now define and hopefully anticipate market action.

This manual follows in the style of Trading by the Book. Indeed, there are many similarities
in form and content. Yet Trading by the Minute has its own messages. Clearly a separate
message to the day trader, but also there are many areas in which a position trader will
recognize value.

Joe and I have been friends for some time. We have collaborated on trading techniques so I
know of his dedication to the market. But in this book we see the other side of Joe — the
instructor of the grand style. He is teaching us “How to Fish”.

W.E. Dalton, MD


=== 第8页 ===
Introduction

PLEASE READ THIS

I have always been a rather private trader. Over the years that I’ve traded the futures markets,
I’ve used family techniques and methods available only to myself, and to those taught by my
family.

In my family, trading in the commodity markets goes back over 110 years.

The things I have discovered about futures trading, coupled with wisdom of old, make up my
style of trading.

Several years ago, I was suddenly stricken with a lengthy and devastating illness that literally
changed my life.

All my trading knowledge nearly died with me. When it looked as if I might have a little
more time left, I set out to write down the way I trade. My instructional manual, Trading by
the Book, was first written for my wife and children so they could, after learning the basics of
trading, carry on the family tradition should they choose.

When I wrote Trading by the Book, it was the first time I had ever revealed my trading
methods to anyone. I did so because, at that time, I firmly believed I had only a few months
left to live, and I wanted to pass on a legacy.

It is now many years since my release from the hospital. To everyone’s amazement, ] am still
alive — alive and back to being involved in the markets on a daily basis. Not only that, but
I’ve found that I like to write and, even more important, I enjoy teaching about the way I
trade.

Trading by the Minute, although a complete manual in its own right, is a natural sequel to
another of my instructional manuals, Trading Is a Business. They are really part and parcel
with each other.

The success of my trading courses has encouraged me to write this sequel. In it, I will try to
show many of the things I’ve learned about successfully daytrading in the futures markets.

My trading is such that it has evolved over the years. I have always tried, and will continue to
try, new things. I am not against any method, system, or concept that can be proven to work
successfully over a period of time. I am never against anything that works for you in your
own trading.

With the onset of “daytrading”, and soon electronic trading as well, I have had to add many
new wrinkles to my tried and true techniques of the past. Yet the good old ways, the methods
that have been winners for over 100 years, are still the mainstay of my trading — even trading
by the minute.


=== 第9页 ===
6 TRADING BY THE MINUTE.

I will write this manual partly in the first person, and quite often using the collective “we.”
I can tell you what I do, and what I think “we” as traders should do. I cannot tell you what
you should do. You’re going to do what you want to do no matter what I say.

Hope lies in the extent to which you may want to emulate the success of my own trading. The
wise trader will seek to incorporate my knowledge into his own method(s) and personal style
of trading.

Most of the trades I show were engaged in specifically for the purposes of writing this book.
Although in the past I traded larger size and at lower commissions than most, these days
I have cut back on my trading and pay commissions similar to those paid by many. In the
trades for this book, I used the number of contracts and computed commissions and costs
according to what was in effect at the time I made the trades. I can tell you that my costs
when trading large size were as low as $6/round turn. My cost for many of the examples was
$15/round turn.

When trading for purposes of writing the book, I stay and even enter trades late in the day.
This is not my usual way. I rarely trade as late in the day as I do when writing for a book.
However, I find it necessary when writing because of the time invested. When I’ve spent an
entire day watching a screen, I push harder to come out of that day with something to show
for it. I want to earn my keep for the day, and I want to have something to show my readers.
When it comes to the S&P 500, I rarely trade during the New York lunch hour.

When I trade for purposes of writing about it, | try hard to be as mechanical as I can be so that
to the greatest extent possible my own instincts and intuitive feelings are removed from the
trade. I want the method to be in the forefront of each trade. Yet I find it is not always
possible to separate my feelings from what I am doing. Wherever such is the case, I have
endeavored to explain my thought process. There is a reason for doing what I do. I have tried
to put my reasoning into the book whenever I have deviated from the purest form of the
method.

There will be instances when I stray from the method and there is no explanation. These are
not intentional. I am not a perfect trader. I miss moves, miscount bars and segments,
miscount points and money, fail to see various formations, etc.

In putting together this course, the emphasis is on technique, not on the overall way I trade.
In order to teach a lesson, I am forced to have tunnel vision.

In actual practice, | filter every daytrade through the daily chart, and often through the weekly
chart as well. I attempt to trade only in markets that are trending on the daily chart. I take
only trades that are in the direction of the trend, especially when a market is correcting.

When writing, I cannot take such a broad view. In that sense, the trades shown are out of
context with the reality of the broader market. In some instances, I purposely took trades that
were not in trending markets, in order to illustrate a point.

In my own trading I am very selective. 1 choose only trades that I feel are very strong — in
my mind, virtually sure things.

In addition to my technical signals, | look for unusual things in the market that might tip me
off as to the very best selection. Such extraneous matters go far beyond the scope of this


=== 第10页 ===
Introduction. 7

book, Much as I’d like to include them here, the impracticality of doing so has to be a factor.
I have neither the time nor the willingness to sit down to write a ten-thousand page tome
expounding every last detail of the way I trade. Perhaps some day I’ll do a video of my
trading so that much of what I do can be seen as well as heard.

Those readers who are familiar with my tutoring and seminars know that I’m terrible with
arithmetic. When I’m trading I make severe and seemingly careless errors. I have a very bad
time with fractions. My arithmetic shortcomings have been there since my earliest childhood
memories. I am severely dyslexic. I make a lot of mistakes — | think I have made a profit
when I haven’t, I think I have taken a loss when I haven’t. Often I use too many or too few
contracts to cover costs because of arithmetic errors. Amazingly, it has never really affected
my trading. I just plow along doing my thing, and somehow at the end of the week, my wife,
who keeps my books far more accurately than I ever could, tells me I’ve done okay.
“Whatever it is you’re doing,” she says, “keep up the good work.”

In the parts of the book involving bar and segment counting, I allude to spreading my position
overnight in a back month. This particular subject goes beyond the scope of this book, but is
covered in my book Trading Spreads and Seasonals. Suffice it to say that I often hedge my
positions in markets that trade overnight by spreading or by entering stops in the cash and/or
foreign futures markets. This is a concept that totally confuses many of my readers and
certainly many of my seminar students. As stated, it goes far beyond the scope of this book,
but for the reader who is familiar with such tactics, please understand that I do this to protect
my position. For the reader who does not know what I’m talking about, this should be an
encouragement to attend a seminar to learn about such things before, not after, suffering large
losses of capital.

ABOUT THIS REVISION

When I first wrote this book, | wanted to demonstrate a very specific way of daytrading
centered around the concept of matching congestions. In practice, this has proved difficult for
most of my students. They simply do not have the experience needed to perceive and trade
these matching formations profitably. Yet, there are some who have done well with this way
of trading. In part, matching congestions are perceived through the eye of the beholder.
Trading them is somewhat intuitive. Describing how to recognize them is definitely
subjective.

In this revision they are presented again for those who have the depth of experience in the
markets to trade them well.

In addition, I have included methods for daytrading that leave little or no room at all for
interpretation. I lead the reader step by step into the segment counting method. This method
is so precise that it could be automated under some form of artificial intelligence. It has
definite and consistent rules. In my opinion, it is best done in light of human reason and
judgment. This method, and the steps leading up to it, take up the greater part of the manual,
and follow the concepts presented for matching congestions. If matching congestions seems
too difficult, then trade with the segment count method. It has proven successful for over 110
years of position trading, and is still successful regardless of time frame as long as a definitive
chart is available.


=== 第11页 ===
8 TRADING BY THE MINUTE.

ABOUT CONTRACT SETS

In the first presentation of contract sets, I suggested using multiples of three contracts. In this
revision, | suggest using at least a two contract set, then three, four, or five. Beyond five
contracts, I recommend using increments of five. This would give ten, fifteen, twenty,
twenty-five, etc.

What must be considered is which gives the best results over all —entering the market with
an odd-lot, or exiting the market with an odd-lot.

Based on my own experience, the better result comes by exiting the market with an odd-lot.
This will make more sense as the rest of the material in the book is absorbed. As the trades
unfold, ask “Is it better to enter the market with a nine lot, and liquidate a four lot to cover
costs, leaving an exit for profit with a five (round) lot, or is it better to enter with a ten (round)
lot, liquidate a four lot to cover costs, and exit with a six (odd) lot?”

The odd lot is going to result in more slippage for the fill. It has proved better to exit on the
odd-lot, and give up slippage on the profit end of a trade, than to enter on the odd-lot, and
give up slippage on the cost end of the trade. In the long run, the reader will have to decide
this for himself within the context of his own trading style.

ABOUT THE SECOND PRINTING

T have added a more complete description of the various ways to spot a trend in its inception.

I have made minor corrections throughout for the purpose of clarity and to correct minor
publishing errors.

ABOUT THE FOURTH PRINTING

For purposes of clarity, the text has been greatly expanded in many chapters and numerous
charts have been updated.


=== 第12页 ===
Chapter 1
THE TRUTH IS THE TRUTH

Although I have written this book from the orientation of the intraday chart, the things I do
and show here can easily be extrapolated to the daily chart. Where we will examine the
relationship between a daily chart and an intraday chart, those who are not daytraders can do
the same thing in the context of the relationship between a weekly chart and a daily chart.

In essence, other than as concerns the magnitude of a move, a chart is a chart is a chart.

What we will see in the early parts of this book centers almost entirely around congestion
areas which may be seen on any chart in any time frame. In the later parts of the book, the
things we will examine center around trending formations. It is important to be able to spot
the very beginning of a trend, and also be able to enter existing and established trends with
great success.

The major differences between trading the intraday chart versus trading the daily chart have to
do with time volatility, and the magnitude of the move in prices.

A more definitive comparison between the five minute chart and the daily chart is given just
ahead.

Decisions must be made more quickly using the intraday charts, and the tradable patterns
form more quickly on the intraday charts.

Other than that, trading is essentially the same. Later in the book, in a chapter entitled “Full
Circle,” I will demonstrate the truth of what I have just said.

It is important to realize that the use of a live data feed, in most instances, gives certain
advantages to the daytrader over the daily trader, when it comes to the matter of optimizing
entry and exit. When used properly, daytrading can result in not leaving nearly so much
money on the table as can daily position trading without intraday entry. However, proper use
of intraday data is very difficult to achieve. It takes great discipline to utilize it properly so as
not to end up overtrading.

DEFINITION OF DAYTRADING

At this point, I want to define daytrading as it will be used throughout this book My
definition may be different from that of others, so I want to clarify exactly what I mean.
Typically, daytrading is defined as entering a market at or after the open, and exiting at or
before the close. In addition, the definition of daytrading presented here includes any method
or system that uses a live, real-time data source to determine entry and exit signals to and
from any market. This would include tape reading, hand-held quote devices, watching an
electronic quote board, or even one of the old electrical clacker boards.

I know it is possible to “daytrade” without a live data feed. I have met some who do that.
I know of two men who literally drive their brokers crazy by calling in every few minutes to


=== 第13页 ===
10 TRADING BY THE MINUTE.

find out the prices of the contracts they trade intraday. By my definition, this is not
daytrading. Nor is trading from a delayed data feed daytrading, by my definition.

The most fundamental concept this book teaches is that it is essential to learn to recognize
what any chart looks like just before an important move or breakout. Equally important is to
be able to recognize congestion at the earliest possible time. This necessitates that a chart
look a certain way. Throughout this manual, we will see charts that have that look. They
must be of sufficient length of time to be well formed. A five minute bond chart is usually the
exact opposite of the type of chart formations I look for. Later we will see a five minute bond
chart and other charts that are untradable by the methods presented here.

COMPARING DAYTRADING WITH POSITION TRADING

When I first started daytrading in the commodity futures markets, I was unable to find books
of any kind covering the subject. Everything 1 did was done without prior knowledge as to
how to go about daytrading. I had no idea of what to expect. I did not know if the things that
had always worked for me would continue to work successfully. Therefore, learning to
daytrade was a new adventure and a great challenge for me.

In some respects, daytrading is not all that different from trading daily charts. Yet, in other
respects, it is as different as night and day.

SIMILARITIES OF DAYTRADING AND POSITION TRADING

The similarities between intraday trading and trading from the daily chart are numerous.

Intraday charts look pretty much like daily charts, but with some notable exceptions. In part,
how the charts look is a function of the data feed service we individually decide to use. I’ve
tried different ones side by side, and there are differences in the appearance of individual
price bars. They often disagree about where a price bar opens and closes, and where the high
and the low occurred. There are also differences due to the particular software we may
choose to use. The appearance of the charts vary from one software package to another.

T have tried several.

With some programs, the clock setting on the computer also makes a difference in how the
software sees the individual price bars. There are differences in the way the data is handled
from one computer program to another, and even running the same program on two
computers with different clock settings will make a difference in how the individual price bars
appear on the charts. When I talk about clock settings, I am referring to the time clock on the
computer that shows hours, minutes, and seconds, as opposed to the internal clock that
controls the hardware cycles.

Intraday charts make essentially the same formations as do daily or weekly charts. There are
trading congestions connected by trends. There are retracements, sideways movements,
pauses, gaps, and waves.

I suppose that if traders had the time to study intraday charts in the manner in which they have
studied monthly, weekly, and daily charts, that cycles could be observed to occur as much on
a one minute chart as they do on a daily chart. I know of traders who trade intraday based
upon astral phenomena and ocean tides.


=== 第14页 ===
The Truth Is the Truth il

Intraday charts can be traded utilizing Fibonacci, Gann, and Elliot techniques, fan lines,
speedlines, pitchforks, oscillators, moving averages, RSI, Stochastics, DEMA, MACD,
Commodity Channel Index, Volatility Stop, Parabolic Stop, Cycle Projection, and any other
of the host of technical analysis tools available for use in the market today.

DIFFERENCES BETWEEN DAYTRADING AND POSITION TRADING

Some differences are to be found in the way certain of the charts appear to the eye. The
Long-bond futures contract, Eurodollars, in fact all of the interest rate contracts, usually
appear flat on a five minute chart, quite different from the way they appear on daily charts.
On most days, the chart formations on these do not begin to look like the daily charts until the
price bars are captured on a sixty minute interval. In some instances, better yet is a 120
minute chart for seeing the interest rate contracts in the way I like to see a chart.

Differences in volatility show up in that a move on a one minute chart that covers the entire
height of the screen may appear as a normal size bar on a daily chart.

Charts for the more thinly traded contracts, and some of the more volatile contracts, appear as
virtually unrecognizable and untradable, losing any symmetry and formation I might want to
use in trading them.

OTHER DIFFERENCES

Slippage is a greater problem in daytrading than it is in position trading. The same amount of
slippage on a daytrade is proportionately greater in relation to an intraday chart than it is to a
daily chart. A daytrade yields less time to absorb slippage. Therefore, holding slippage to a
minimum becomes critical.

Keeping slippage at a minimum necessitates using fewer order types based on an intraday
chart than we might use on a daily chart. We must know within a point or two where we are
going to be filled.

Trying to have minimal slippage also affects size. We have to be careful to maintain lot sizes
that are normally traded. We want to avoid odd-lots, such as twenty-three S&P 500 contracts,
or nine crude oil contracts. Where will we find an opposite trade to offset such strange
numbers? :

Very often, we can consider liquidating a lot size to cover costs that is greater than needed
just so we will be left with an easily liquidated lot size should there be a need to get out in a
hurry, or to help insure the least slippage for a profit taking fill.

Fundamentals play little part in trading the intraday charts. News affects the opening calls,
and, of course, it can have impact on the action during the day, but a long term position trade
on a one minute chart can consist of about twenty price bars. Often a trade consists of five to
ten price bars, and occasionally only one price bar is sufficient for a trading decision.

Seasonality, in the conventional sense, has virtually no manageable effect on intraday trading,
other than as a possible initial entry technique.

News stories and rumors greatly affect the intraday charts, causing huge runs during the day
and yawning gaps at the open.


=== 第15页 ===
12 TRADING BY THE MINUTE,

Obtaining good fills becomes absolutely critical in intraday trading, and the problem of entry
and exit on a same short term price bar can be enormous, because one doesn’t yet know if the
entry fill was completed prior to having to enter the exit order. In some of the more thinly
traded markets, and at intervals when a market is fast, even a trade taken from a ten minute
chart do not give sufficient time for knowing whether or not an entry order was filled prior to
the appearance of the next ten minute bar, and having to enter the exit order for a particular
trade, Execution is a major consideration in daytrading, and we will delve into it in greater
detail in the appropriate places.

IF YOU ARE GOING TO DAYTRADE, YOU MUST HAVE EXCELLENT ACCESS TO THE TRADING
FLOOR, EITHER BY TELEPHONE OR ELECTRONIC ORDER ENTRY. WITHOUT THAT, YOU ARE
ASKING TO BE SLAUGHTERED.

The amount of commissions to be paid becomes critical in daytrading. Having less time and
range of movement with which to absorb overhead means that it is vital to secure and
maintain the lowest possible commissions per round turn.

The area of trade management becomes totally different in intraday trading, and the strategy
and tactics involved are much different when trading intraday than when trading the daily
charts. Please notice that I said trade management, and not risk management or money
management. The main difference in trade management has to do with the hurried way in
which we often have to trade intraday.

By trade management, I mean the mechanics of entering or exiting a trade. In daytrading,
I often substitute trade management for money management. Instead of having an objective
of a certain number of points or dollars for purposes of exiting all or part of my position,
I simply exit based on what I see on the chart.

Those who have read my manual Trading by the Book know that I pretty much reject the
practicality of fundamental trading because, as an individual, I have neither the time nor
money to pursue the acquisition of sufficient fundamental knowledge from which to make
trading decisions.

Also, with the exception of mentally noting where Fibonacci ratios are located so that I can
fade the Fibonacci traders, along with the occasional use of the Bollinger Bands, or a 3 bar
offset moving average, I reject the use of the dozens of technical trading tools in my own
trading of the intraday charts.

But because I reject almost all of the technical trading tools for intraday trading doesn’t mean
that there are not others who use them effectively. There are! But for me they just seem to
get in the way.

As regards Fibonacci ratios, I use visual retracement ratios only as a filter to tell me if a
market is behaving normally, and to see where the Fibonacci traders have their stops. I do not
use Fibonacci expansion ratios to help me set objectives for my trades. They are too time
consuming and totally unnecessary in the way I daytrade. Besides, that is where the
Fibonacci traders will attempt to exit, and there is usually a host of insiders waiting for them
to make their move. By insiders, I mean those traders who are able to move the market by
means of sheer volume of contracts.


=== 第16页 ===
The Truth Is the Truth 13

Do I deny the fact that there will be buying at Fibonacci support and selling at Fibonacci
resistance prices. No! There almost certainly will, especially in those markets where
Fibonacci numbers have become popular.

Although I do have a sense of where the Fibonacci retracement ratios are located, in my use
of these I differ greatly from the “norm”, in that I do not trade from the retracement ratio
points as do most who use Fibonacci. I use my perception of where they are to tell me if a
market is acting as I might expect it to. In that sense, it is “nice to know” information. I also
use the retracement ratios to ascertain where a move is likely to stop or pause, as
knowledgeable traders take advantage of the less knowledgeable traders. Perhaps I should
call them “the knowledgeably challenged” traders.

I would strongly urge anyone wanting a more complete understanding of my basic trading
philosophy to purchase Trading by the Book. Better yet is to come to one of my seminars.
Much of what will be found in Trading by the Minute derives from the age old truths found in
Trading by the Book, and taught at the seminars. The concepts shown in Trading by the Book
and at the seminars, along with many of the tips and techniques shown, are for the most part
applicable to trading in virtually any time frame.

When trading intraday charts, I use no “technical” tools at all, other than very occasionally
using the moving average mentioned above. This is, more specifically, a three bar simple
moving average of the close set forward three bars in time. When I do use it, it’s usually to
provide variety in my trading so that I’m not always doing exactly the same thing.

My approach to intraday trading is based entirely upon what I see before me in the form of a
bar chart showing Open, High, Low, and Close. As previously stated, I use virtually no
technical tools in my daytrading. Why? Because I feel they operate only to confuse the
picture, AND BECAUSE THEY ARE WHAT THE MAJORITY OF THE OTHER TRADERS ARE USING
— AND IF YOU BELIEVE THE STATISTICS, YOU KNOW THAT THE MAJORITY ARE
CONSISTENTLY LOSING IN THE MARKETS!

The closest I can get to the truth of what is happening in the markets is what I am able to see
on my bar chart as prices tick up and down on the computer screen. Notice | said “closest”.
The bar chart is the best I can do, but even it doesn’t tell me the whole truth, and what it does
tell me is always history even with a live data feed.

I know of a number of traders who thought that because they had a live data feed, they could
trade the markets just as a floor trader would. That is emphatically not true, although the data
feed suppliers would like to convince you that having a live data feed is as though you are
“right there in the pit with the floor traders.”

BE AWARE THAT THE EXCHANGES CONSIDER ANYTHING UNDER 5 MINUTES TO BE LIVE
DATA. I HAVE SEEN DATA FEEDS THAT RUN AS MUCH AS 4-1/2 MINUTES BEHIND THE PRICE
ACTION IN THE PITS, YET THE COMPANY SELLING THE DATA CLAIMS THAT THEY ARE
SUPPLYING YOU WITH LIVE DATA.

On my live data feed, I can’t see how many traders are in the pits. The volume I see on my
chart is tick volume, only a best guess of the actual volume on the trading floor. I can’t
immediately see if a market is thin, I can only guess, ask my broker, or try to come up with a
reasonable assessment based on tick volume. I cannot sense the emotions or moods on the
trading floor. I cannot tell if there are more buy orders than sell orders, or vice-versa.


=== 第17页 ===
14 TRADING BY THE MINUTE.

I can only belatedly realize that a market has started to become “fast”. Another handicap is
that I cannot see who is doing the trading. I am unaware when a “commercial,” or a large
trader comes onto the floor and begins to suddenly or incrementally buy or sell. Probably my
biggest disadvantage is that I cannot see the “bid”, “ask” or “size” figures. Although they are
available through my daytrading software, they are posted too late to do me any good. They
are always way behind-times.

Another important item that’s missing is that I can’t hear the action as the floor traders can.
They react to the noise levels — I cannot.

These limitations, of necessity, have an effect on my trading style and results. The way I
trade has to compensate for the lack of “truth” or real knowledge I have to deal with when
trading from a computer screen.

Another major limitation I have is that of time. 1 dare not use the so-called support and
resistance points that the floor traders use. I dare not use the same so-called “safe-buy” and
“safe-sell” points that are being used by the floor traders. The difference is that they are
THERE, in the pit, and can react immediately to the price action. As stated, the floor traders
have the advantage of “hearing” the action on the floor and seeing the participants. They also
have the advantage of not having to place an order in the market. They simply buy from or
sell to the nearest available trader who is looking for the opposite action and lot size. The
floor traders can “see” the lot sizes being bid and offered, I cannot. They know immediately
if they can buy a 20 lot, whereas I have to guess.

Even though my data feed is “real time”, there is a minimum ten second transmission delay
between when I see a price tick and when it actually ticks on the floor. Added to that is the
incremental delay within the computer program that takes place between the time the data is
received by the program, and the time slice given for posting to the particular market(s) in
which I’m trying to trade. The refresh rate to the screen for each tick causes a tiny delay. The
data feed itself causes delays. The delays are something I have to live with that the floor
trader doesn’t have to live with.

Another problem I have with time, which changes the whole ball game as to the way I can
trade versus the way someone on the floor can trade, is that I have to deal with the inevitable
delay of the telephone call for placing my order, and the ensuing clerical procedure necessary
to get my order into the pit. This is true even with electronic order entry. If and when I call
directly to the floor, there is a delay as the order ticket is written and then taken to or signaled
to the trading pit. Even if the order is “arbed” in before it is written, I have a delay of several
seconds. There are also times when the market is fast when I cannot get my order arbed in at
all. The fact is that unless I have an electronic trading system, the real delay for my trades is
25-60 seconds behind the real price action. With some data feeds, as previously mentioned, it
is worse than that.

The time intervals I lose, compared with the actuality that is taking place on the trading floor,
amount to a tremendous handicap that has to be dealt with and overcome by the methods I use
in my trading.

1 also have to live with higher commissions than do floor traders. Even a low round-turn
commission off the floor results in paying several times the commission that some floor
traders pay.


=== 第18页 ===
The Truth fs the Truth 15

Finally, I have to put up with the inevitable missed ticks that fail to come across my data feed
and bad ticks that come all too frequently across any data feed. They love to come at critical
decision times. They are a major annoyance in daytrading, especially those you cannot see
because they fall within the “norm” of the current price action. Bad ticks are an especially
large problem when dealing with data from the New York markets.

I stated previously that technical indicators only tend to confuse the picture. Anyone who
uses them knows that a three bar version of a moving average, a momentum oscillator, a
channel index, DEMA, RSI, Stochastic, etc., look and behave differently than an eighteen bar
version of the same technical indicator. Which one is to be believed? All technical indicators
are figments of the imagination. They are created by the trader and render different trading
decisions from the same trader depending upon the length of their base.

Technical indicators tend to smooth things, when the underlying reality upon which they are
based is anything but smooth. Prices tend to chop up and down, making rather large moves in
spurts from time to time. The large moves and gaps tend to distort any indicator that is not
smoothed to the point that it no longer has much to do with the reality of the price action.

My way of trading is to trade from the reality of what is happening to the price as reflected on
the computer screen in front of me. Since what I see there is the closest I can come to the
truth, for me it is the truth.

Another thing to realize when trading intraday charts is that by the end of the day there will,
on the shorter term charts, be a great many bars. For instance, on a one minute chart, there
may be as many as 405 price bars showing. That is the equivalent of many months of trading
on the daily charts. In addition to those 405 bars, there are those that have already slid off the
beginning of the chart. This is especially true of the currencies, the interest rates, and the
stock index charts.

That’s a lot of price bars, and it represents a lot of trading decisions. If I were to “add to my
position” each time there was a trading opportunity on a one minute chart, I could go
insane...and so could my broker. Of course, “adding” to a position is a fallacy which exists
only in one’s mind. You cannot add to an existing position. Each so-called “addition” is
really a new position with all new risk, and which may have nothing to do with the factors
upon which the original entry decision was made.

Therefore, I do not trade in and out all day long. I simply cannot take the wear and tear. If I
did trade in and out (like the floor traders), I would simply burn out before the end of the day.
In fact, | know someone who had a nervous breakdown doing that very thing.

I’m not saying that others can’t do it. I’m saying I can’t do it. It’s too intense for me, and it’s
too much like hard work.

I’m often asked by others, “Do you daytrade?”

By now the answer should be obvious. Yes, I do daytrade. But I cannot do it all the time.
It takes great energy to daytrade. It involves a great intensity of concentration.

I have, at times, daytraded intensively for a few days, but then I had to rest and get away from
the markets. The odd thing about that kind of intense trading is that I don’t always know


=== 第19页 ===
16 TRADING BY THE MINUTE.

when I’ve had enough. I usually find out or realize I’ve been at it too long when I wake up to
the fact that I’m losing too much money.

The intensity of daytrading has a way of hypnotizing me so that after awhile I really am not
seeing much of anything. 1 become dull. My perception of the market action is no longer
sharp. I have become saturated and my mind has become numb.

It takes great energy to daytrade and the cost in mental and physical wear and tear makes it
problematic from a practical standpoint.

I am not alone in this perception of daytrading. One friend of mine, who has been a
professional trader for 24 years, says that all he can stand of it is two or three days out of each
month.

Another friend, who has a seat at the CBOT, told me it is easier to trade down on the floor
than to daytrade from a screen off the floor. He has been trading for 36 years, and is one of
the all-time greats of trading.

Because daytrading is so intense, because I personally can’t handle too much of it, and most
of all because the greater profits are made long term, I also position trade the intraday charts.
I attempt whenever possible to turn a daytrade into a position trade. I’ll be showing how I do
that in a later chapter.

Position trading is a lot more relaxed. The trades more or less take care of themselves.

I don’t have to pay much attention to them. Once I have turned a daytrade into a position
trade, all I have to do is monitor the trade closely enough to move my profit protecting stops
and get out at any objectives I have set for the trade. Typically, my profit protecting stop is
one and the same with my objective, and my objective is based on trade, not money,
management. I want to be stopped out with a profit. 1 quit trying to pick market tops and
bottoms long ago


=== 第20页 ===
17

Chapter 2
CHART READING

What is chart reading? Why is it important? What is meant by chart reading?

Chart reading involves determining the most likely direction in which prices will move based
on a pictorial representation of price action. Chart readers believe that everything known
about a particular futures contract is reflected in its price at the moment you are viewing it on
your screen. With proper implementation and interpretation, a bar chart can reveal very
powerful price patterns.

The immediate psychology of a market is reflected in the price action. What you see in price
patterns would seem to be nothing more than supply and demand in action. Supply and
demand and market valuation are not the only things determining price action. When you are
able to accept this as fact, and appreciate the psychology behind the various patterns, you will
begin to appreciate why price patterns are worthy of very close inspection and analysis. The
only way to gain confidence in the price patterns is to see them in action. We will view them
when they provide profitable trading signals and when the patterns fail.

It is this concept that makes trading quite different from investing. Investors, unless they are
entering orders based on some “hot tip,” usually trade based on their own or someone else’s
investigation of a company’s or a futures’ fundamental vital statistics. Investing is wisely
done based on fundamental information about the condition of a particular company or futures
market and often its standing relative to other similar underlying assets. Conversely, trading,
especially daytrading, is done mostly based upon technical information. A chart showing a
futures’ open, high, low, and closing prices is, in the estimation of many, the best possible
way to trade based on technical information. From the point of view of a chart trader, supply
and demand are seldom directly related. The same is true of a futures’ fundamentals. For a
chart trader, a futures fundamentals are not directly related to how we as traders deal with a
market. As traders we base our trading decisions on what we see on a chart. We look at the
overall picture before us. We also learn to examine in minute detail the behavior of each
price bar as it appears before us. We do this regardless of the time frame in which we trade.
We are looking for any clue that might indicate to us what will happen next.


=== 第21页 ===
18 TRADING BY THE MINUTE.

A CHART IS A CHART

To us as traders, @ chart is a chart, is a chart. We don’t care which underlying vehicle is
involved as long as we see good price action and good liquidity.

Years of looking at price charts have revealed that there is a “Law of Charts (TLOC).” The
law states that anything that can be charted and displayed as a bar chart, having both high and
low values for the interval represented by each bar, will always present itself as one of four
definable chart patterns. These are:

e ]-2-3 high and low formations
e Ledges

e §6Trading Ranges

* Ross Hooks

Now let’s examine these formations. Learning them is critical to what will be taught
throughout this course.

High
y

Open + . . . : . .
First, notice the picture on the left. We will be discussing

bar charts. The picture on the left is a price bar. It
consists of an Open, a High, a Low, and a Close.
« Close

Low


=== 第22页 ===
Chart Reading 19

THE LAW OF CHARTS

THROUGHOUT THE REMAINDER OF THIS COURSE I WILL OFTEN REFER TO THE LAW OF
CHARTS AS TLOC. THESE INCLUDE 1-2-3 HIGHS AND LOWS, LEDGES, TRADING RANGES, AND
ROSS HOOKS.

1-2-3 HIGHS AND LOWS

A typical 1-2-3 high is formed at the end of an uptrending market. 1
Typically, prices will make a final high (1), proceed downward to

point (2) where an upward correction begins; then proceed upward to |
a point where they resume a downward movement, thereby creating |
the pivot (3). There can be more than one bar in the movement from

point 1 to point 2, and again from point 2 to point 3. There must be a

full correction before points 2 or 3 can be defined.

A number | high is created when a previous up-move has ended and
prices have begun to move down.

The number 1 point is identified as the last bar to have made a new high in the most recent
up-leg of the latest swing.

The number 2 point of a 1-2-3 high is created when a full correction takes place. Full
correction means that as prices move up from the potential number 2 point, there must be a
single bar that makes both a higher high and a higher low than the preceding bar or a
combination of up to three bars creating both the higher high and the higher low. The higher
high and the higher low may occur in any order. Subsequent to three bars we have
congestion. Congestion will be explained in depth later on in the course. It is possible for
both the number | and number 2 points to occur on the same bar.


=== 第23页 ===
higher low Liat low


=== 第24页 ===
Chart Reading 21

The number 3 point of a 1-2-3 high is created when a full correction takes place. A full
correction means that as prices move down from the potential number 3 point, there must be a
single bar that makes a lower low and a lower high than the preceding bar, or a combination
of up to three bars creating both the lower low and the lower high. It is possible for both the
number 2 and number 3 points to occur on the same bar.

1 1 1
3 lower |
Wh
| | \ L | | | | lower high
lower high lower ! lower low
2 2 low 2
lower low
1 1
| | lower
| 3 high
| ae 3 lower high 3 th y
| | Th ee low | ml lower
low
2
Now, let’s look at a 1-2-3 low.
2 A typical 1-2-3 low is formed at the end of a downtrending market.

Typically, prices will make a final low (1), proceed upward to point (2)

where an downward correction begins; then proceed downward to a point

where they resume an upward movement, thereby creating the pivot (3).

There can be more than one bar in the movement from point 1 to point 2,

| and again from point 2 to point 3. There must be a full correction before

| 3 points 2 or 3 can be defined.


=== 第25页 ===
22 TRADING BY THE MINUTE

A number | low is created when a previous down-move has ended and prices have begun to
move up. The number 1 point is identified as the last bar to have made a new low in the most
recent down-leg of the latest swing.

|
|

The number 2 point of a 1-2-3 low is created when a full correction takes place. Full
correction means that as prices move down from the potential number 2 point, there must be
a single bar that makes both a lower high and a lower low than the preceding bar, or a
combination of up to three bars creating both the lower high and the lower low. The lower
high and the lower low may occur in any order. Subsequent to three bars we have congestion.
It is possible for both the number 1 and number 2 points to occur on the same bar.

2 2
. | | —ier high |F | i lower high
| | _ lower low | | ft <¢— lower low
{ 1 4
2 2
i fee high lower | lower
high | high

i | +— lower low | | | | le | lower

| low jl

| 1 1

The number 3 point of a 1-2-3 low exists when a full correction takes place. A full correction
means that as prices move up from the potential number 3 point, there must be a single bar
that makes a higher low and a higher high than the preceding bar, or a combination of up fo
three bars creating both the higher low and the higher high. _It is possible for both the
number 2 and number 3 points to occur on the same bar.


=== 第26页 ===
Chart Reading 23

2

| ml | | lil io | | | | Le —ful | | | | | ful correction
correction
[Pele
1 1
2 2 2 higher
high
| | ea aaaemall| | |
|
| | | higher low
3
1 1 1

The entire 1-2-3 high or low is nullified when any price bar moves prices equal to or beyond
the number 1 point.

2

| |

4

tulifying



=== 第27页 ===
24 TRADING BY THE MINUTE.

LEDGES

A LEDGE CONSISTS OF A MINIMUM OF FOUR PRICE BARS. IT MUST HAVE TWO MATCHING
LOWS AND TWO MATCHING HIGHS. THE MATCHING HIGHS MUST BE SEPARATED BY AT
LEAST ONE PRICE BAR, AND THE MATCHING LOWS MUST BE SEPARATED BY AT LEAST ONE
PRICE BAR.

The matches need not be exact, but should not differ by more than three minimum tick
fluctuations, If there are more than two matching highs and two matching lows, then it is
optional whether to take an entry signal from either the latest price matches in the series
(Match ‘A’) or those that represent the highest and lowest prices of the series (Match “B’).
[See below]

A LEDGE CANNOT CONTAIN MORE THAN 10 PRICE BARS. A LEDGE MUST EXIST WITHIN A
TREND. The market must have trended up to the Ledge or down to the Ledge. The Ledge
represents a resting point for prices, therefore you would expect the trend to continue
subsequent to a Ledge breakout.

— _~ + —— Match 'B"

TRADING RANGES

A Trading Range (See below) is similar to a Ledge, but must consist of more than ten price
bars. The bars between ten and twenty are of little consequence. Usually, between bars 20
and 30, ie., bars 21-29, there will be a breakout to the high or low of the Trading Range
established by those bars prior to the breakout.

ye if | thay


=== 第28页 ===
Chart Reading 25

ROSS HOOKS

A Ross Hook is created by:

1. The first correction following the breakout of a 1-2-3 high or low.
2. The first correction following the breakout of a Ledge.
3. The first correction following the breakout of a Trading Range.

In an uptrending market, after the breakout of a 1-2-3 low, the first instance of the failure of a
price bar to make a new high creates a Ross Hook. (A double high/double top also creates a
Ross Hook).

Double Top
Rh
Rh Rh preakout
| 2 | hl
mu if jl
3 | 3
1 1

1

In a downtrending market, after the breakout of a 1-2-3 high, the first instance of the failure of
a price bar to make a new low creates a Ross Hook. (A double low/double bottom also equals
a Ross Hook).

| |
P|) 3 |
||
2 k | soe 2 | ||
Rh Rh

Double
bottom



=== 第29页 ===
26 TRADING BY THE MINUTE.

If prices breakout to the upside of a Ledge or a Trading Range formation, the first instance of
the failure by a price bar to make a new high creates a Ross Hook. If prices breakout to the
downside of a Ledge or Trading Range formation, the first instance of the failure by a price
bar to make a new low creates a Ross Hook (A double high or low also creates a Ross Hook).

Let — tL ]
ean

PP |eBezaeot

nM i

We’ve defined the patterns that make up the Law of Charts (TLOC). Study them carefully.
Later we'll show how to trade them.

t

Rh

What makes these formations unique is that they can be specifically defined. The ability to
formulate a precise definition sets these formations apart from such vague generalities as
“head and shoulders,” “coils,” “flags,” “pennants,” “megaphones,” and other such supposed
price patterns that are frequently attached as labels to the action of prices.

When one looks up into the night sky, it takes great imagination to say, “Oh, look! There is a
‘bear’ up there.” By what definition is there a “bear” to be seen in the night sky? It is much
the same with many of the so-called formations that various experts claim to see on charts.
They lack definition and are seen only through a stretch of the imagination. The terms
1-2-3’s, Ledges, Trading Ranges, and Ross Hooks may be names concocted from
imagination, but the definition of these formations is precise.


=== 第30页 ===
27

Chapter 3
TRADE SELECTION

With what has been discussed so far as a background, let’s get down to some trading
concepts.

MARKET ANATOMY

This represents a futures price action :
High
Open

Close

Low

Looking at it carefully, what can be said about the price action? What can be seen here?
What truth can be found in this single pictograph of price action?

We can say that prices opened near the current high and the last known price action is near the
low, can’t we? We can say that there is downward pressure and that the sellers are having
more influence than the buyers, right? Let's agree that we can say that there is volatility in the
price action — volatility being the amount of movement between the high and the low.
Wouldn’t you say that there is definitely momentum — a measure of the force, thrust, or
energy behind the price action? We can see that prices changed direction at /east three times.
Surely we can say that there is a volume of trading, and that there was some measure of
liquidity.

Are prices in a Trading Range? Truly they are in a Trading Range! They are in a Trading
Range between the high and the low.

Isn’t that true of all markets? Every market in existence is in a Trading Range between the
highest high and the lowest low that it has ever experienced.

There is something else true about this market’s price action: It either trended, stair-stepped,
or collapsed from where we see the open to where we see the low.

