
=== 第34页 ===
Trade Selection 31

But what if this market were to take out the high of the previous bar like so:

At this point the high of the
previous bar is violated.

Could money have been made trading the breakout of that high? The answer to that is yes,
provided the move is sufficiently great! And it is one basis for trading the intraday bar charts.

What we are talking about here is THRUST. For the time being, let’s forget about where the
market closed. That is of no significance whatsoever. We will have made our money and
been out of the trade long before the close.

The important thing is that prices opened at a certain level, and at some time during the day
the price action took out what had been the intraday high at the opening level, which was its
first high for the day. When that high was taken out, it was a significant event. Profits could
have been made. An even more significant event took place when the high of the previous
day was violated.

IMPORTANT! WHEN DAYTRADING AN INTRADAY CHART, WE ARE INTERESTED ONLY IN
WHAT IS HAPPENING TODAY. WE ARE NOT WORRIED ABOUT THE CLOSE. THE CLOSE IS
MANY PRICE BARS AWAY. WE ARE NOT WORRIED ABOUT TOMORROW — TOMORROW IS A
WHOLE NEW SET OF EVENTS. WE ARE NOT WORRIED ABOUT WHAT HAPPENED YESTERDAY —
YESTERDAY IS HISTORY, EXCEPT IN THAT WHAT HAPPENED YESTERDAY, OR THE DAY
BEFORE, OR THE DAY BEFORE THAT, MAY BE RELATED TO WHAT OUR ACTIONS WILL BE
TODAY. More of that relationship ahead.

Although we will consider turning a daytrade into a position trade according to certain rules to
be explained later, we must have a rule for our daytrade in and of itself, and this rule is
absolute:

UNLESS WE ARE CONSIDERING CONVERSION TO A POSITION TRADE, WE WILL NEVER CARRY
A DAYTRADE OVERNIGHT! We will always be out by the close of trading. That is what
makes the trade a daytrade. It is not to be held overnight. If we do consider it for holding, it
will have lost its status as a daytrade, We will have converted it to a position trade and will
then begin to observe a different set of rules.


=== 第35页 ===
32 TRADING BY THE MINUTE.

The truth about making money in the markets is that most of the money to be made is made
when prices “pop” and then begin to trend. It is the connector trends between congestions
that offer the most profit potential.

The money is made here,
between the lines.

rl.

ft
thy 4, Eau
yf “H+

With that in mind, we will take in order major entry signals, intermediate entry signals, and
minor entry signals.


=== 第36页 ===
33

Chapter 4
MAJOR ENTRY SIGNALS

In Chapter 2, we looked at the definitions of the chart formations making up the law of charts.
For your convenience they are repeated in this chapter along with chart examples of each.
The major entry signals which follow are derived from TLOC and are given the highest
priority. They are all derived from the daily bar chart. There is a good reason for this which I
will explain for your benefit now.

One of the most important times of the day for daytraders is when entry signals are generated
from the larger time frame of the daily chart. For example, the taking out of a Ross Hook that
has formed on the daily chart will as a rule generate far more thrust than the taking out of a
Ross Hook that was formed on a five minute bar chart. It should be obvious to you that this is
so. Similarly, the taking out of a Ross Hook that was formed on a weekly chart is a much
more significant event than the taking out of a Ross Hook formed on a daily chart. The thrust
needed to move prices beyond any of the formations described in the TLOC is greater as
prices move out from the five to the ten minute chart, and from the ten minute chart to the
thirty minute chart, and so forth.

If you are a daily chart trader, you cannot afford to pass up the opportunities offered by major
pattern formations on the weekly charts. If you are a daytrader, you cannot afford to pass up
the opportunities afforded by major pattern formations of the daily chart.

I have known highly successful traders who daytrade exclusively from daily chart signals.
Therefore I have termed these daily chart patterns as major entry signals. These signals do
not in any way preclude your taking entries from the five, ten, fifteen, thirty or sixty minute
charts.

What we are discussing here is magnitude of movement. And the magnitude of move (thrust)
from a greater time interval almost always gives us a better opportunity for a sizable win than
does the move from a lesser time interval.


=== 第37页 ===
34 TRADING BY THE MINUTE.

Major entry signals follow:

e The breakout of a 1-2-3 high or low.
e The breakout of a Ledge.

e The breakout of a Trading Range.

e The breakout of a Ross Hook.

IN ALL OF THESE TECHNIQUES BASED ON THE BAR CHART, WE WILL IGNORE ANY GAP
BREAKOUTS, GAPS NULLIFY OUR ENTRY INTO THE MARKET. WE WANT TO ENTER ONLY
THOSE TRADES THAT TRADE “THROUGH” OUR ENTRY PRICE.

I AM REPEATING THE DEFINITION OF 1-2-3 HIGHS AND LOWS BECAUSE THEY ARE
IMPORTANT, AND THIS TIME I WILL SHOW THEM IN THE CONTEXT OF CHARTS. PLEASE BE
SURE YOU STUDY THEM CAREFULLY. THEY ARE AN INTEGRAL PART OF WHAT FOLLOWS.

A typical 1-2-3 high is formed at the end of an uptrending market. 1
Typically, prices will make a final high (1); proceed downward to point

(2) where an upward correction begins; then proceed upward to a point |
where they resume a downward movement, thereby creating the pivot |
(3). There can be more than one bar in the movement from point 1 to

point 2, and again from point 2 to point 3. There must be a full
correction before points 2 or 3 can be defined.

i

2
A number | high is created when a previous up-move has ended and ’
prices have begun to move down. | | |

The number | point is identified as the last bar to have made a new
high in the most recent up-leg of the latest swing.

'


=== 第38页 ===
Major Entry Signals 35

The number 2 point of a 1-2-3 high is created when a fii correction takes place. Full
correction means that as prices move up from the potential number 2 point, there must be a
single bar that makes both a higher high and a higher low than the preceding bar or a
combination of up to three bars creating both the higher high and the higher low. The higher
high and the higher low may occur in any order. Subsequent to three bars we have
congestion. Congestion will be explained in depth later on in the course. It is possible for
both the number 1 and number 2 points to occur on the same bar.

1
| fi.
higher high
|

«— higher low

higher low higher low

|
higher high
[tater
2

|
oy


=== 第39页 ===
36 TRADING BY THE MINUTE.

The number 3 point of a 1-2-3 high is created when a full correction takes place. A full
correction means that as prices move down from the potential number 3 point, there must be a
single bar that makes a lower low and a lower high than the preceding bar, or a combination
of up to three bars creating both the lower low and the lower high. It is possible for both the
number 2 and number 3 points to occur on the same bar.

1 1
3 Jian |
an mid “ |
| H)| lower high
| lower high i Ne “tower | Al | ower | low
2
lower low
1
| | | lower
3 high
| iy lower high 3 | | |
| il lL low | mh ower
2
Now, let’s look at a 1-2-3 low.
2 A typical 1-2-3 low is formed at the end of an downtrending market.

Typically, prices will make a final low (1); proceed upward to point (2)

where an downward correction begins, then proceed downward to a

point where they resume an upward movement, thereby creating the

pivot (3). There can be more than one bar in the movement from point 1

to point 2, and again from point 2 to point 3. There must be a full
' correction before points 2 or 3 can be defined.


=== 第40页 ===
Major Entry Signats 37

A number 1 low is created when a previous down-move has ended and prices have begun to
move up.

The number | point is identified as the last bar to have made a new low in the most recent
down-leg of the latest swing.

i

The number 2 point of a 1-2-3 low is created when a full correction takes place. Full
correction means that as prices move down from the potential number 2 point, there must be
a single bar that makes both a lower high and a lower low than the preceding bar, or a
combination of up to three bars creating both the lower high and the lower low. The lower
high and the lower low may occur in any order. Subsequent to three bars we have congestion.
It is possible for both the number 1 and number 2 points to occur on the same bar.

2 2
1 i high | | lower high
| i | | tomer low | | | lower low
2 2
fo high lower lower
| |r | ft high | high
I +— lower low | | — lower lower

| low low


=== 第41页 ===
38 TRADING BY THE MINUTE

The number 3 point of a 1-2-3 low exists when a full correction takes place. A full correction
means that as prices move up from the potential number 3 point, there must be a single bar
that makes a higher low and a higher high than the preceding bar, or a combination of up to
three bars creating both the higher low and the higher high. It is possible for both the
number 2 and number 3 points to occur on the same bar.

2 2 2
| |
full | | | full
| | | | correction | | | <ul | | | le fl tion
| correction |
3 | 3 | | 3
1 1 4
2 2 | 2 higher
| high
| | full correction | | |
| | | | higher low
3
1 1 1

The entire 1-2-3 high or low is nullified when any price bar moves prices equal to or beyond
the number 1 point. Note: The #3 point does not come down as low as the #1 point in a
uptrend, or as high as the #1 point in a downtrend.

We set a mental or computer alert, or both, to warn us of an impending breakout of these key
points. We will not enter a trade if prices gap over our entry price. A gap occurs when prices
jump from where they previously finished to where they currently begin. A gap can occur
when prices are moving up or when prices are moving down. We will enter it only if the
market trades through our entry price.

1-2-3 highs and lows come only at market turning points that are, in effect, major or
intermediate highs or lows. We look for 1-2-3 lows when a market seems to be making a low,
or has reached a 1/3 or greater retracement of prices from a low. We look for 1-2-3 highs
when a market appears to be making a high, or has reached a 1/3 or greater retracement of
prices from a high.

Exact entry will always be at or prior to the actual breakout taking place. I will cover more of
that concept when we discuss the Trader’s Trick entry,

The next figure illustrates the 1-2-3 formation in action.


=== 第42页 ===
Major Entry Signals. 39

( . iD ha f perfect 1-2-3 lou t

yt

THE 1-2-3 LOW IS CHARACTERIZED BY THE FACT THAT THE #3 POINT DOES NOT COME BACK
(RETRACE) AS LOW AS THE #1 POINT (ABOVE CHART). A 1-2-3 HIGH IS CHARACTERIZED BY
THE FACT THE #3 POINT DOES NOT COME BACK (RETRACE) AS HIGH AS THE #1 POINT.

LEDGES

A Ledge consists of a minimum of four price bars. It must have two matching lows and two
matching highs. The matching highs must be separated by at least one price bar, and the
matching lows must be separated by at least one price bar. The matches need not be exact,
but should not differ by more than three minimum tick fluctuations. If there are more than
two matching highs and two matching lows, then it is optional whether to take an entry signal
from either the latest price matches in the series (Match ‘A’) or those that represent the
highest and lowest prices of the series (Match ‘B’). A Ledge cannot contain more than 10
price bars. A Ledge must exist within a trend. The market must have trended up to the Ledge
or down to the Ledge. The Ledge represents a resting point for prices, therefore you would
expect the trend to continue subsequent to a Ledge breakout.


=== 第43页 ===
40 TRADING BY THE MINUTE.

i) ware ru
, yey

| Tae ‘A

| + | «Match ‘B’

This is how to determine what constitutes a Ledge:

We look for a correction or congestion that is at least four bars in length, but no more than ten
bars in length.

The Ledge is characterized by a “squaring off’ of highs and/or lows, the flatter the better.
Perfect squares are best.

We trade the potential breakout in the direction of the trend.

We can go back only as far as the first leg of the previous price swing to find a matching high
or low.

What we have done here is to allow the market to tell us what it is going to do and when it is
going to do it.

The Ledge becomes possible because the market decides to move sideways for a number of
bars on the chart, thereby making it possible for us to position ourselves for an anticipated
continuation of the previous price move. Our entry exists with our buy or sell orders at
natural support and resistance points.

We mark these off as soon as we can draw a line across two highs and two lows, just so long
as they match. We will enter a trade only if prices break out of the Ledge by trading through
the high or the low. We will not enter a trade if prices gap past our entry point.

ONCE THERE ARE MORE THAN TEN BARS ON THE CHART, WE STOP TRYING TO TRADE THE
LEDGES. WE WAIT FOR THE MARKET TO START TRENDING AGAIN OR FOR A FULL BLOWN
TRADING RANGE TO DEVELOP.

Why does this entry technique work so well? Because it takes advantage of natural support
and resistance points. A breakout of a natural support or resistance point will usually be
associated with good momentum. There should be enough explosive force to give a profitable
short term trade.

In order to show more clearly what we are doing with this technique, two charts containing
Ledges follow:


=== 第44页 ===
Major Entry Signals. 41

Matching highs

| . ¢_—Fin two matching highs,
yy ee maiching lows, Then sell the breakout of those lows,
=
/ itty,

ume Tt,

It doesn’t matter which comes | t 1]
first, as long as the tro 1 i
matches are separated by at

least one price bar. Ie bene

The matches do not have to he exact.
They can be off by 1-5 ticks, but no
more than that. Exact matches are
best. If there's any doubt, leave it |
alone. |

We trade prior to or at an actual non-gap breakout of the Ledge. The entry may be prior to or
at the breakout point. The breakout point is in the direction of the trend 1 tick above or 1 tick
below where I have drawn the line connecting two matching highs or two matching lows.
Note, this may not be the absolute high or low of the congestion on the chart.


=== 第45页 ===
42 TRADING BY THE MINUTE.

[17 771, s¢Wewould trade this one

| Fit-and this one,
CaF io
bone tty < but not this one,
‘ | tT} ¢_ or this one because of the
Cap opening ae gap openings.
|
| v's Hone yas a nice
Not all ledges are Gap opening iH hth one,
tradeable. Take | I
only those in which + if
there is no gap opening |
past the entry point.

|

The two entries we didn’t take were because the breakout bar was a gap down.

While we have this chart in front of us, please realize that, although the overall trend of prices
is down, they are actually stair-stepping down. A stronger trend would have fewer stair steps
and more pronounced downward connectors. There is quite a difference in the way we would
trade each type of trending market. Stair-stepping markets are characterized by Ledges
followed by sudden collapses in price in a down trend, or sudden explosions in price in an
uptrend. After each collapse or explosion, prices rest, thereby causing the Ledge and the
stair-stepping appearance of prices.


=== 第46页 ===
Major Entry Signals, 43

THE BREAKOUT OF A TRADING RANGE

TRADING RANGES
A Trading Range must consist of more than ten price bars. The bars between ten and twenty
are of little consequence. Usually, between bars 20 and 30, i.e., bars 21-29, there will be a

breakout to the high or low of the Trading Range established by those bars prior to the
breakout.

Most of the time a Trading Range will be preceded on the chart by either a gap or a bar which
is relatively large in size from high to low. It may be any combination of the two.

The chart on the next page illustrates this point.


=== 第47页 ===
44. CSCC RACING BY THEE MXINUIT EE.

r— il
i
hy
HA fe
Herta yf
Me I
if
i
i iy
# Gap down into a Gap and long bar
! Trad my Range. nove up into a
al Trading Range.
we
mit, Pe
wr OF

The first step after noting a gap or a series of gaps, or a large size price bar, is to begin to
watch for a Trading Range (TR) to evolve. Here is how it will usually happen:

¢ There will be a gap or large single bar move up into or down into what will eventually be
seen as a Trading Range (TR).

e There will be a leg counter to the thrust of the gap or large bar move.

This is a leg up —* if

Hy «+ _—sOThisisa leg down


=== 第48页 ===
Major Entry Signals 45

From now on, up legs will be referred to using the forward slash symbol /, and down legs
using the backward slash symbol \.

e Then there will be a second leg back in the direction of the gap or large single bar move.
At that point we have a market that, in its most recent action, has legs that look like this
A, or this V, from a bird’s eye view. It is then that we draw a horizontal line across the
highest high, and a parallel horizontal line across the lowest low. (See boxed in chart on
previous page). It will usually take about 10 bars or so for all of this to happen. The
formations /\ or V constitute “market swings.”

e Inthe next few bars, a third leg will form giving us /V, or V\. This is the beginning of
what may turn out to be a Trading Range. Again we draw horizontal lines across the
highest high and the lowest low, unless the old ones are still intact. We have now
established a rudimentary envelope that is delineated by drawing a simple horizontal line
across the top of the Trading Range, and a parallel horizontal line across the bottom of the
Trading Range.

e The next step is to count the number of bars on the chart. Some time between 21 and 29
bars, a fourth leg will usually be completed. The Trading Range now looks like A or
VW. (See box in chart on previous page). If there had been a new high, a new low, or
both, during that last leg, we would have redrawn the envelope. Usually this is not
necessary.

We can now set a mental alert, a computer alert, or both, to tell us when we are approaching
one of the prices which represent the outer limits of the envelope. Any non-gap breakout of
these prices will constitute an entry point for us to enter a daytrade.

An interesting aspect of the Trading Range is that it appears to be one of only two techniques
in which looking back actually has great meaning. Generally, we cannot trade based on what
is in the past, it is the current bar’s or next bar’s price in which we are most interested.
However, with a Trading Range, the inception will always come at the end of a trend, or stair-
stepping progression, or as an explosion or collapse in prices. Any time we witness what
might be the end of one of the above, we immediately suspect that a Trading Range is about
to ensue.

WHEN WE ARE LOOKING BACK, WE CHOOSE AS THE BEGINNING OF THE TRADING RANGE
THAT PRICE BAR WHICH MOST TYPIFIES THE VERTICAL CENTER OF ALL OF THE PRICE
ACTION SINCE PRICES BEGAN TO CONGEST.

This will be the least frequently occurring entry technique in our arsenal, but it will be one of
the best. The thrust out of an envelope will yield many a worthwhile trade. The next figure
will serve to illustrate this point.


=== 第49页 ===
46 TRADING BY THE MINUTE.

; Me
r We go long on

pe it fh, if a violation of
ra! [ "i AP te igh ot

t the TR.

nt” Beginning bar of TR most typifies vertical center
: of the price action at the point where the range
vp low and high are in place.

The entry point is a trade-through by prices of the breakout point. The breakout point is the
highest high or the lowest low of the Trading Range. We will enter a trade at or before the
breakout. We will not enter if prices gap past our entry point.

ROSS HOOKS
A Ross Hook is created by:

e The first correction following the breakout of a 1-2-3 high or low
« The first correction following the breakout of a Ledge.
e The first correction following the breakout of a Trading Range.

In an uptrending market, after the breakout of a 1-2-3 low, the first instance of the failure of a
price bar to make a new high creates a Ross Hook. (A double high/double top also equals a
Ross Hook).


=== 第50页 ===
Major Entry Signals. 47

Double Top
Rh
Rh Rh <ee
2 H Rh |
| 2 | |
me i Air
3 | 3
1 1

1
In a downtrending market, after the breakout of a 1-2-3 high, the first instance of the failure of
a price bar to make a new low creates a Ross Hook. (A double low/double bottom also equals
a Ross Hook).

1 1

| hc em 2
t t
Rh Rh

Double
bottom

I
Hi
|

2


=== 第51页 ===
48 TRADING BY THE MINUTE

If prices breakout to the upside of a Ledge or a Trading Range formation, the first instance of
the failure by a price bar to make a new high creates a Ross Hook. If prices breakout to the
downside of a Ledge or Trading Range formation, the first instance of the failure by a price
bar to make a new low creates a Ross Hook (A double high or low also creates a Ross Hook).

‘| |-¢-Breakout

| ||

A Hook differs from a 1-2-3 because it doesn’t have to have a definitive high or low and it
doesn’t have to have a full correction. It may pop out of a congestion area such as a Ledge or
Trading Range. ROSS HOOKS OCCUR AT ANY LEVEL, BUT ONLY IN TRENDING MARKETS,
WHEREAS 1-2-3 LOWS OCCUR AT INTERMEDIATE AND MAJOR MARKET LOWS, AND 1-2-3
HIGHS OCCUR AT INTERMEDIATE AND MAJOR MARKET HIGHS.

,

A Ross Hook does not need more than the failure of prices to make a new high/low in a trend
In a down market, as soon as you have an equal or higher low, you have a Hook. In an up
market, as soon as you have an equal or lower high, you have a Hook.

The next figure shows what is meant by Ross Hooks.


=== 第52页 ===
49

Major Entry Signals

Some Ress Hooks (h) and
their accompanying entry
points. ,
me
t
' Ht ir i"
h 1

1

i ee

a if fl 3 The difference between a 1-2-3 low and Hook

wat

can be seen here.

The above Ross Hooks “h” were tradable because they had non-gap breakouts. There are
other Hooks shown, but because of gap openings, they were not tradable.
The -» shows where the entry would have been. The entry points occur after the Hooks.

Later, when we discuss the Trader’s Trick, we will look at even earlier entries than the ones

shown.

Also shown on the previous chart is a 1-2-3 low to demonstrate the difference between 1-2-3

lows and Ross Hooks.

An automatic alert should be placed the minute a market makes a Hook. Place the alert at a

point prior to the taking out of the

Hook. By “taking out” I mean a violation of the price

creating the point of the Hook. Remember the Hook occurred on an earlier price bar.


=== 第53页 ===
50 TRADING BY THE MINUTE.

Summary: Major Entry Signals

e The breakout of a 1-2-3 high or low.

e The breakout of a Ledge.

e The breakout of a Trading Range.

« The breakout of a Ross Hook.

Note: Some of these may be concurrent with one another as well as with some of the
intermediate and minor trading signals which follow. Whenever there is both a congestion
area and a trend forming within that congestion area, the trend always takes precedence over
the congestion. Further on in the course, I will define precisely what constitutes an emerging

trend, a defined trend, and an established trend. For now, suffice it to say that an established
trend always exists once the breakout of a Ross Hook has taken place.


=== 第54页 ===
Chapter 5
INTERMEDIATE ENTRY SIGNALS

Intermediate entry signals are based on significant breakout points from daily or lesser
magnitude charts such as 60 or 30 minute. They work best taken from daily or greater charts
because of the magnitude of the anticipated move. If you are a daily position trader take these
signals from the weekly chart. The signals are as follows, and are usually taken:

e A breakout of the highest high of the last three bars taken as a group.
e A breakout of the lowest low of the last three bars taken as a group.

e A breakout of any individual low of the last three bars. This includes a breakout of the
previous bar’s low.

e A breakout of any individual high of the last three bars. This includes a breakout of the
previous bar’s high.

The breakout must be by virtue of prices trading through the entry points. A gap opening past
the entry point nullifies the trade initially.

This is a very simple technique and does not need much explanation. We will enter a trade at
a breakout as described above. The stronger trade may come as a result of a breakout of the
highest high or lowest low of the last three bars. At times it takes much pent-up momentum
to overcome the extremes of the past three bars of trading. But this is not always the case.
Sometimes the move is nearly over by the time the breakout occurs. One has to experiment
with these to come to see them more clearly. The three bar breakout can act as a filter for
lesser trades.

The following four pages contain examples of Intermediate Entry Signals.
A breakout of the highest high of the last three bars taken as a group.


=== 第55页 ===
52 TRADING BY THE MINUTE.

Breakout of

the highest | | i |

high of the last

three days. | hy j
{p

No gap openings
are allowed,

Arrows point to the breakout points on the actual breakout day. Daytraders would attempt to
enter intraday on or before the actual breakout using one or more of the entry techniques
taught in this course, i.e., a Trader’s Trick, or a congestion near the breakout point.

On this chart and the ones that follow in this chapter, I have not shown every single breakout
day.


=== 第56页 ===
Intermediate Entry Signats_. 53

A breakout of the lowest low of the last three bars taken as a group.

I* sf ,
iy 7 1 sth No gap openings

are allowed,

timer | Ly

of the last

three d i
/ | Hh

Arrows point to the breakout point on the actual breakout day.
Proceeding from left to right, the first arrow shows a probable good daytrading entry.
The second arrow shows an even better daytrading entry.

The third arrow shows one additional daytrading entry.


=== 第57页 ===
34 TRADING BY THE MINUTE.

A breakout of any individual low of the last three bars. This includes a breakout of the
previous bar’s low.

an individual
low,

A breakout of |

hea ti

are allowed.

Arrows point to the breakout point on the actual breakout day. There are many places on the
chart that have entry situations. I’ve picked one that might have caused problems, another
that was a good trade, and a third that was so-so.

Proceeding from left to right, notice on the chart above the first arrow points to a breakout of
the low of the previous day that would have resulted in a poor intraday trade at best. The next
arrow shows a trade that held the possibility of an excellent intraday trade. The last arrow
above shows a trade entry that potentially offered a mediocre intraday trade.


=== 第58页 ===
Intermediate Entry Signals 535

A breakout of any individual high of the last three bars. This includes a breakout of the
previous bar’s high.

are allowed.

tif j No gap openings
|

any individual

A breakout of i
oy i !

Arrows point to the breakout point on the actual breakout day. There are many of them on the
chart and I chose only a few.

Proceeding from left to right, the first arrow points to a breakout that offered little room for
profit to the daytrader. The second arrow offered an excellent daytrade provided a profit
protecting strategy of some sort was used. The last arrow shows a trade that offered excellent
profits to the daytrader.


=== 第59页 ===
56 TRADING BY THE MINUTE ___

Chapter 6
MINOR ENTRY SIGNAL

The minor entry signal is as follows.

We look for a first or second breakout of the first trading congestion to form after the opening
as seen on the intraday chart. This may include a congestion carryover from the previous day.

Entry is only by virtue of prices trading through the breakout point. To prevent being filled
on a gap, we enter after the open.

Here are examples:

hh

ht ' Breakout of the first congestion

on the chart after the opening.

| It matches a congestion from the
previous day.

L

tl,
it Le, sry
en ete ry

| on second time through ‘fe “Hea i

f

Notice that the first tinfe through congestion the trade went nowhere. There was a gap
through, not taken, two bars before the second actual trade-through. We don’t take gap
trades. We would attempt the first and second times that prices actually trade through. It was
the second time through that resulted in the good trade.


=== 第60页 ===
Minor Entry Signal 57

Trade a breakout
of the first
congestion after

the open.

Day 1
y Day 3

( * ih Day?

i
mh
mM \ i \ | eid

Each boxed area shows the first congestion after the open on each day shown. Trade

breakouts of those congestions.


=== 第61页 ===
38 TRADING BY THE MINUTE.

after the open.

‘i

i

— Open 3

nh
Trade a breakout of the
first congestion to form

Open 4

In the above chart we are trading the first breakout of congestion.



=== 第62页 ===
Chapter 7
THE TRADER'S TRICK

The purpose of the Trader's Trick entry (TTE) is to get us into a trade prior to entry by other
traders.

Let's be realistic. Trading is a business in which the more knowledgeable have the advantage
over the less knowledgeable. It's a shame that most traders end up spending countless hours
and dollars searching for and acquiring the wrong kind of knowledge. Unfortunately, there is
a ton of misinformation out there and it is heavily promoted. What we are trying to avoid
here is the damage that can be done by a false breakout.

Typically, there will be many orders bunched just beyond the point of a Ross Hook. This is
also true of the number two point of a 1-2-3 formation. The insiders are very much aware of
the bunching of orders at those points, and if they can make it happen, they will move prices
to where they see the orders bunched together, and then a little past that point in order to
liquidate as much of their own position as possible. This action by the insiders is called “stop
running.”

Unless the pressure from the outsiders (us) is sufficient to carry the market to a new level, the
breakout will prove to be false.

The Trader's Trick is designed to beat the insiders at their own game, or at the very least to
create a level playing field on which we can trade. WHEN TRADING HOOKS, WE WANT TO
GET IN AHEAD OF THE ACTUAL BREAKOUT OF THE POINT OF THE HOOK. IF THE BREAKOUT
IS NOT FALSE, THE RESULT WILL BE SIGNIFICANT PROFITS. IF THE BREAKOUT IS FALSE, WE
WILL HAVE AT LEAST COVERED OUR COSTS AND TAKEN SOME PROFIT FOR OUR EFFORT.

Insiders will often engineer moves aimed at precisely those points where they realize orders
are bunched. It is exactly that kind of engineering that makes the Trader's Trick possible.

The best way to explain the engineering by the insiders is to give an example. Ask the
following question: If we were large operators down on the floor, and we wanted to make the
market move sufficiently for us to take a fat profit out of the market and know that we could
liquidate easily at a higher level than where the market now is because of the orders bunched
there, how would we engineer such a move?


=== 第63页 ===
60 TRADING BY THE MINUTE.

‘We know that orders are bunched within

Rh a few ticks of the high point.

| | If prices are languishing in congestion
down here and we wanted w engineer a
+ move up to the Ross Hook, in order to
| Pick up some profits, what would we do?
and how would we do it?

eats

By bidding a large number of contracts above the market, prices would quickly move up to
our price level.


=== 第64页 ===
The Trader's Trick. 61

Next, we bid somewhat higher.

—---------—------- The next bid might be here.

—-----------——------ Prices would rise quickly to
meet the bid.

Once again by bidding a large number of contracts at a higher level, prices would move up to
that next level.

| a — We have now succeeded in moving

prices up out of the congestion area.

The sudden movement up by prices, to meet our large-order overpriced-bid, will cause others
to take notice. The others are daytraders trading from a screen, and even other insiders.

Their buy orders will help in moving the market upward towards where the stops are bunched.
It doesn't matter whether this is a daily chart or a five minute chart, the principle is the same.
In order to maintain the momentum, we may have to place a few more buy orders above the
market, but we don't mind. We know there are plenty of orders bunched above the high point.
These buy orders will help us fill our liquidating sell orders when it's time for us to make a
hasty exit.

Who has placed the buy orders above the market? The outsiders, of course. They are made
up of two groups. One group are those who went short sometime after the high was made,


=== 第65页 ===
62 TRADING BY THE MINUTE.

and feel that above the high point is all they are willing to risk. The other group are those
outsiders who feel that if the market takes out that high, they want to be long.

Because of the action of our above-the-market bidding, accompanied by the action of other
inside traders and daytraders, the market begins to make a strong move up. The move up
attracts the attention of yet others, and the market begins to move up even more because of
new buying coming in.

This kind of move has nothing whatsoever to do with supply and demand. It is purely
contrived and engineered.

Once the market nears the high, practically everyone wants in on this “miraculous” move in
the market. Unless there is strong buying by the outsiders, the market will fail at or shortly
after reaching the high. This is known as a buying climax.



=== 第66页 ===
The Trader's Trick. 63

What will cause this failure? Selling. By whom? By us as big operators, and all the other
insiders who are anxious to take profits. At the very least, the market will make some sort of
intraday hesitation shortly after the high is reached.

If there is enough buying to overcome all the selling, the market will continue up. If not, the
insiders will have a wonderful time selling the market short, especially those who know this
was an engineered move. NOTE: DON’T THINK FOR ONE MOMENT THAT THERE IS NOT
COLLUSION BY INSIDERS TO MANIPULATE PRICES.

What will happen is that not only will selling be done for purposes of liquidation, but also for
purposes of reversing position and going short. This means the selling at the buying climax
may be close to triple the amount it would normally be if there were only profit taking.

Why triple? Because if prices were engineered upward by a large operator whose real
intention is to sell, he will need to sell one set of contracts to liquidate all of his buying, and
perhaps double that number in order to get short the amount of contracts he originally
intended to sell.

The buying from the outsiders will have to overcome that additional selling.

Because of that fact, the charts will attest to a false breakout. Of course, the reverse scenario
is true of a downside engineered move resulting in a false breakout to the downside.

WARNING: MOVING THE MARKET AS SHOWN IN THE PREVIOUS EXAMPLE IS NOT
SOMETHING THE AVERAGE TRADER SHOULD ATTEMPT!

It is very important to realize what may be happening when a market approaches a Ross Hook
after having been in a congestion area for awhile. The prior pages have illustrated this

concept.

With the preceding information in mind, let's see how to accomplish the Trader's Trick.


=== 第67页 ===
64

TRADING BY THE MINUTE.

As prices approach the high of the point of a Ross Hook, we buy
a breakout of a price bar high that is in the correction. We want
to make sure that there is sufficient room between the entry and
the Ross Hook so that if all that happens is that prices above the
Hook are violated and we must extt, we will stil have a profitable
trade. There is always the possibilty that we will get nothing
more than a double top or a false breakout. Ifso, we will have
traded for free, having covered our costs and taken a small
profit as well.

On the chart above the Rh is the high. There were two price bars following the high: one is
the bar whose failure to move higher created the Hook, and the other is one that simply
furthered the depth of the correction.

Let’s look at that again by breaking it down in detail in an example.


=== 第68页 ===
The Trader's Trick. 65

Following the high is a bar that fails to have a higher high. This
failure creates the Ross Hook, and is the first bar of correction. If
there is sufficient room to cover costs and take a small profit in the
distance between the high of the correcting bar and the point of the

Hook, we attempt to buy a breakout of the high of the bar that

created the Hook, i.e., the first bar of correction. If the high of the
first bar of correction is not taken out, ie., violated, we wait for a
second bar of correction.

Once the second bar of correction is in place, we attempt to buy a

violation of its high, again provided that there is sufficient room to

cover costs and take a profit based on the distance prices have to
travel between our entry point and the point of the Hook.

If the high of the second bar of correction is not violated, we will attempt to buy a violation of
the high of a third bar of correction provided there is sufficient room to cover costs and take a
profit based on the distance prices have to move between our entry point and the point of the
Hook. Beyond three bars in the correction, we will cease in our attempt to buy a breakout of
the correction highs.

What if the fourth bar did as pictured on the left? As long as prices are moving back up in the
direction of the trend that created the Ross Hook, and as long as there is sufficient room for us
to cover costs and take a profit, we will buy a breakout of the high of any of the three
previous correction bars. In the example, if we were able to enter before prices violated the
high of the second bar of correction, we would enter on a violation of the high of the second
correcting price bar. If not, and there is still room to cover and
sereeiees seey profit from a violation of the first correcting price bar, we
] would enter there. Additionally, we could choose to enter on a

takeout of the high of the latest price bar as shown by the

cesses double arrow even if it gaps past one of the correction bar
| highs.

novees REMINDER: ONCE THERE ARE MORE THAN THREE BARS OF

CORRECTION, WE NO LONGER ATTEMPT TO ENTER A TRADE.

THE MARKET MUST BEGIN TO MOVE TOWARD THE HOOK AT

THE TIME OF OR BEFORE A FOURTH BAR IS MADE.

Although not shown, the exact same concept applies to Ross
Hooks formed at the end of a down move.

Risk management is based upon the expectation that prices will go up to at least test the point
of the Hook. At that time, we will take, or already have taken some profit and have covered
costs.


=== 第69页 ===
66 TRADING BY THE MINUTE.

We are now prepared to exit at breakeven, at the very worst, on the remaining contracts.
Barring any horrible slippage, the worst we can do is having to exit the trade with some sort
of profit for our efforts.

We usually limit the Trader's Trick to no more than three bars of correction following the high
of the bar that is the point of the Hook. However, there is an important exception to this rule.
The next chart shows the use of double or triple support and resistance areas for implementing
the Trader's Trick

Please realize that “support” and “resistance” on an intraday chart does not have the usual
meaning of those terms when applied to the overall supply and demand in the market place.
What is referred to here is given in the following four examples:

Rh The exception is that, whenever there has been a tight
congestion area with double or triple support or resistance, it is
prferable to take a breakout of that area for the Trader's Trick.

<— Triple resistance, buy here

Of course, our rule still remains that there Triple support,
must be sufficient room between the entry sell here.

point and the point of the Hook to at least

cover costs.



=== 第70页 ===
The Trader's Trick 67

Any time a business can consistently make profits, that business is going to prosper. Add to
that profit the huge amount of money made on the trades that take off and never look back,
and it’s readily apparent that enormous profits are available from trading.

The management method we use shows why it is so important to be properly capitalized. Size
in trading helps enormously.

The method also shows why, if we are undercapitalized (most traders are), we must be patient
and gradually build our account by taking profits quickly when they are there.

If you are not able to tend to your own orders intraday, it may be well worth your while to
negotiate with a broker who will execute your trading plan for you. There are brokers who
will do this, and you may be surprised to find that there are some who will perform such
service at reasonable prices if you trade regularly.

When we are trading using the Trader’s Trick, we don’t want to be filled on a gap opening
beyond our desired entry price unless there is sufficient room for us to still cover costs and
take a profit. Can you grasp the logic of that? The reason is that we have no way of knowing
whether a move toward a breakout is real or not. If it is engineered, the market will move
forward to the point of taking out the order accumulations and perhaps a few ticks more.
Then the market will reverse with no follow through in the direction of the breakout. As long
as we have left enough room between our entry point and the point where orders are
accumulated to take care of costs and a profit, we will do no worse than breakeven. Usually,
we will also have a profit to show for any remaining contracts, however small.

If the move proves to be real (not engineered), then the market will give us a huge reward
relative to our risk and costs. Remember, commission and time are our only real investment
in the trade if it goes our way.

The important understanding that we need to have about the Trader’s Trick is that by taking
entry into a market at the correct point, we can neutralize the action by the insiders. We can
be right and earn something for our efforts should the breakout prove to be false.

Some breakouts will be real. The fundamentals of the market insure that. When those
breakouts happen, we will be happy, richer traders.

With proper money management, we can earn something for our efforts even if the breakout
proves to be false.


=== 第71页 ===
68 TRADING BY THE MINUTE.

PRIORITIES

Now it is time to show what our priorities should be. We want to trade the major breakouts
and intermediate term breakouts first and foremost. This entails making a mental note or
marking on the chart the points at which these breakouts will occur.

I have presented these in the order of their occurrences. There is no specific priority to the
major signal trades over the intermediate signal trades as far as their priority goes. The
breakout from a major entry point is not more important for entry purposes than a breakout
from an intermediate entry point, nor is the breakout of the extremes of the last three days
taken as a group necessarily a more important entry signal than the breakout of the individual
high or low of any of the last three days. Intermediate entry signals do not take a lower
priority than do major entry signals. The difference between major entry signals and
intermediate entry signals as it affects other trading will be discussed in a later chapter.
However, do keep in mind that the thrust to be derived from a major entry signal is generally
greater than that from an intermediate entry signal

The minor entry signal does defer to the others. The major and the intermediate signals are
more important than the minor. Any time we can trade a major or intermediate signal rather
than a minor signal, we should.


=== 第72页 ===
69

Chapter 8
STOPS

Before proceeding with more trading, let’s take time to discuss stops.

Stops are of two kinds — protective stops, and objective stops.

PROTECTIVE STOPS

It is very difficult to tell someone just where to place stops. This is because stop placement is
a function of a number of variables. The size of the account must certainly dictate stop
placement. The ability to withstand pain (comfort level) is a major factor. It’s not practical to
tell another person to place stops at a certain percentage away from the entry. That doesn’t
make sense. If the stops are too close, there will be losses on what might have been winning
trades. If the stops are too far away, there will be larger losses on losing trades than were
necessary.

Telling someone to place his stops at a certain number of points away from entry is also
impractical because account sizes vary as do individual levels of comfort.

Traders should be highly suspicious of someone who presumes to tell them where to place
their stops, unless they are following a person’s trades on an advisory basis. Then, of course,
they must use that person’s stops or they wouldn’t truly be following what they’ve paid to
find out.

Since I will not presume to tell anyone where to place their stops, let me tell where I place
mine.

When I enter a daytrade I use a mental stop. Mental stops can be dangerous. You must
follow your discipline and stick with your stop price. When I trade I use a mental stop exit
on one of two conditions:

¢ If I see two reversal bars in a series of price bars that are moving in the desired direction
away from my entry point.

af 2nd reversal bar. Bar Exit on 2™ al bar when
t closes lower thanit opens. “*" On < Teversal Dar wit
l" trading with the violation
; 4st reversal bar. Bar method.

closes lower than it opens.

H


=== 第73页 ===
70 TRADING BY THE MINUTE.

| ist reversal. Bar closes
yt higher than it opened.

: nd
2nd reversal. Bar closes Exit on 2” reversal bar when

¢——higher than it opened. trading with the violation
method.

Exit on bar that
makes @ lower low
| in an up move
Exit on bar that makes a
higher high in a down move

|

¢ IfI see a bar that makes a lower low in an up move, or a price bar that makes a higher
high in a down move.

These exits are all part of the violation method.
This method of handling stops is valid for both intraday and position trading, so I’d better
illustrate the point. I call this technique the “violation method.”

REVERSAL BARS

It is assumed that in an up move, prices will move in such a way that each price bar will close
higher than it opens. Overwhelmingly, on a percentage basis, if in a series of price bars in an
up move you see two bars which close lower than they open, the indications are that the move
is at least temporarily over. I take my money and run. I can almost always get back in when
the move resumes. The two bars in the series do not have to be consecutive. Any two bars in
the series will do. The combination of open-high/close-low price action in an up move is
called a reversal bar.

Conversely, in a down move, it is assumed that prices will continuously close lower than they
open, When I see any two bars that reverse this process (i.e., open low/close high) I have two
reversal bars. I exit immediately. The reversal bars do not have to be consecutive, they can
occur anywhere in the series.


=== 第74页 ===
Stops 7I

HIGH AND LOW VIOLATIONS

The presumption is that, in an up move, prices should be making higher highs and higher
lows. Therefore, if a price bar should happen to make a lower low, thereby violating the
previous bar’s low, something is not quite right. On a percentage basis, it is a good idea to
begin exiting as soon as the lower low occurs. The opposite is true in a downtrend. It is
presumed that prices should be making lower highs and lower lows. If a price bar suddenly
makes a higher high by violating the previous bar’s high, percentages indicate that the down
move is going to stop — at least for awhile. I take my money and run.

With the violation method you have a choice as to whether or not you would sell the entire
position at the time of the violation, a violation being two reversal bars or the making of a
higher high in a down move or a lower low in an up move. If you choose not to liquidate the
entire position, you can scale out by exiting part of the position whenever you see the first
violation, staying in part of the position until you see a second violation, and holding part of
the position until you see anything that would cause you to take your money and run. It is
entirely subjective as to what would cause you to do that. Depending on your strategy and
business plan, you can decide which method is best for you and your trading.


=== 第75页 ===


=== 第76页 ===
E=entry

{r=1st reversal
2r=2nd reversal

x=out

lr — bar opened lower and closed higher rather thi

an opening higher and closing lower



=== 第77页 ===
74 TRADING BY THE MINUTE

Begin exit on second reversal bar.

| rsa —[

| =, il

| : i tl k my
"ay!



=== 第78页 ===
Exit on higher high in a down move


